Saturn - USENET Binary Snarfer
 by Mark J Roberts <mjr@statesmean.com>
 this file by Ian Clarke <ian@freenetproject.org>
This code is released under the Gnu Public License, see the file COPYING
for more information.

INTRODUCTION:

Saturn is a small C program designed to work with Freenet (see 
http://freenetproject.org/.  Saturn requires a version of Freenet which 
supports the Freenet Client Protocol (FCP), this means that it should be 
Freenet 0.3.9.1 at a minimum.  Saturn has been tested in Redhat Linux 7.1, 
but should compile and run in any sane Unix environment.

INSTALLATION:

Please refer to the INSTALL file.

USAGE:

NOTE: Before running Saturn, a Freenet node must be running, you can 
download Freenet from http://freenetproject.org/

To use saturn type:

saturn some.news.group

You will see Saturn download a number of articles, check them for attached
files, and insert them into Freenet.  When saturn is finished, you will
notice that it has created a file in the current directory with the same
name as the newsgroup you ran it on.  Each line of the file contains seven
tab-delimited fields:

filename    CHK    subject    author    date    message_id    bytes

This file is in a deliberately simple format so that it can be processed 
by scripts which will, for example, create HTML indexes within Freenet.

Saturn will save the article number of the last downloaded article to a
file in ~/.saturn.  When you run Saturn again, it will automatically start
from that point. You can override this, and reinsert articles, with the -a
switch.

COMMAND LINE OPTIONS:

Saturn supports the following command line options:

Option	Description
-h xx  	The "hops to live" for inserts.  This should be low (20),
	but could be increased if others cannot reach the files
	that you are inserting.  Making the htl Greater than 100 
	won't make any difference.
-t xx	Maximum number of simultaenous inserts to attempt.  Generally 10 
	is a good number.  Trying to do too much at once isn't a good idea
	as Freenet will place its own limits on the maximum number of
	threads.
-s xx	Only insert articles whose names match a regular expression.
	This allows you to filter articles based on their subject lines.
-c xx	Terminate after xx collisions.  This will cause saturn to stop
	if it finds that files have already been inserted into Freenet,
	suggesting that someone else has already snarfed the newsgroup.
-m xx	Skips articles less than xx bytes.
-a      Insert all articles, regardless of what has been already inserted.
-o xx   Output log to xx. If xx is "-" log to stdout.

SCRIPTS

Saturn is distributed with a set of simple Perl scripts, which process its
raw output into (one hopes!) more pleasant forms.

	"thumbnails" creates HTML tables of thumbnails.

	"index" creates a sorted HTML index page.

See a script's usage printout and source code for additional information.

